Docs:update maintenance mode in older versions (#849)
redpanda-data/documentation: versioned_docs/version-22.1/cluster-administration/node-management.mdx

---
title: Node Maintenance Mode
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Node Maintenance Mode | Redpanda Docs"/>

>     <meta name="description" content="Enabling node maintenance mode."/>

Reviewer: Also, I noticed that we use the terms 'place in' and take out' when referring to maintenance mode. Should we use 'place in' here for consistency?

>     <meta name="description" content="Enabling node maintenance mode."/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <meta name="description" content="Place a node into maintenance mode to safely perform operations, such as hardware maintenance, system maintenance, or a rolling upgrade."/>
```

</head>

> Node maintenance mode enables you to take a Redpanda node offline temporarily while minimizing disruption to client operations. When a node is in maintenance mode, you can safely perform operations that require the Redpanda process to be temporarily stopped; for example, performing hardware or system maintenance, or performing a [rolling upgrade](../../install-upgrade/rolling-upgrade).

Author: ```suggestion
Node maintenance mode enables you to take a Redpanda node offline temporarily while minimizing disruption to client operations. When a node is in maintenance mode, you can safely perform operations that require the Redpanda process to be temporarily stopped; for example, performing hardware or system maintenance, or performing a rolling upgrade.
```

:::caution

> A node cannot be decommissioned while it is in maintenance mode. Take the node out of maintenance mode first by running `rpk cluster maintenance disable <node-id>`.

Author: Since only one node can be in maintenance mode at a time, I think it makes sense to keep "node" (singular). Where did you get your information about transferring partitions during decommissioning? As long as partition leadership is reassigned, the partitions themselves (data) do not have to be transferred. The reason for having partition replicas is so you always have at least one backup.

> A node cannot be decommissioned while it is in maintenance mode. Take the node out of maintenance mode first by running `rpk cluster maintenance disable <node-id>`.

Reviewer: Ah! That makes total sense, sorry. I think it was this sentence that threw me off in the paragraph below the caution: `Note that maintenance mode only transfers leadership; it does not move any partitions to other nodes in the cluster.` I thought somehow this must have been related. 

Thanks for explaining that 😄

:::

> When a node is placed in maintenance mode, it reassigns partition leadership to other nodes in the cluster. The node is not eligible for partition leadership again until it is taken out of maintenance mode. Note that maintenance mode only transfers leadership; it does not move any partitions to other nodes in the cluster. 

Author: Reassigning partition leadership is not the reason for the caution about decommissioning a node.

> If a node hosts a partition with a replica count of 1, you have three options:

Reviewer 2: All the items you listed below we can't do today. So instead we should just say "If a node hosts a partition with a replica count of 1, the partition will be unavailable when the Redpanda process is not running"

Author: @dotnwat  Could you please weigh in here? I think these are the three options you suggested for partitions with one replica.

Reviewer 3: @AnneLeeperRP This has sat for 13 days with no response. Please implement the update from @rkruze . If @dotnwat has any issues with the update, he can re-open or file another issue. Thx.

Author: Since Roko's suggested change needs to go in all our supported doc versions, I created [issue 923](https://github.com/redpanda-data/documentation/issues/923) to address it. This PR just addresses [issue 522](https://github.com/redpanda-data/documentation/issues/522), which is about decommissioning a node (and the fact that you can't do that while the node is in maintenance mode).
